# DATA 551 App Proposal
Shayla Tran, Matthew Angoh & Kyle Deng

### Motivation & Purpose
HIV (Human Immunodeficiency Virus) is a well-known virus that attacks the immune system of infected individuals. HIV gained immense awareness in the early 1980s, particularly in the USA, and it is responsible for AIDS (Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome), which is a stage of HIV infection where the immune system is severely damaged. As of 2022, there were approximately 39 million people globally that are living with HIV/AIDS, which has no known cure so far. HIV/AIDS remains a global public health issue, with ongoing efforts to increase access to prevention, treatment, and care. 

**Role:** Data science consultants on an international health team
**Target audience:** Executives/members of a health organization (maybe specializing in epidemiology)

HIV/AIDS is a notorious disease that impacts not only the health of infected individuals across the world, but also their lifestyle, their mental health, and overall quality of life. Not all those that are affected have access to sufficient resources for the necessary treatment and care to manage the disease. As data scientists in the health sector, we want to transform our data containing HIV/AIDS statistics across the globe to extract insights to help professionals understand the gap between affected peoples and their access to care. To achieve this, we will craft a dashboard app that can allow epidemiologists or other health professionals to explore the demographics and regions of people affected by HIV/AIDS. The main goal of the app is to show which countries have higher infection rates or mortality rates due to HIV/AIDS, for example, or to highlight groups of people that are most vulnerable or undercared for. Users can select and toggle the regions around the world and the demographic of interest to obtain an idea of these situations across different groups. Being able to provide such visualizations can help us understand where in the world health organizations can concentrate their efforts to support HIV/AIDS patients that do not receive sufficient care or are more at risk. 

### Description of the Data
The data contains 17 indicators. These indicators can be categorized into three main groups: 
1. General rates (ie. rate of annual AIDS-related deaths, incidence rate, mother-to-child transmission rate)
2. Statistics on pregnant women and children (ie. number of children receiving ART, percent of pregnant women living with HIV within 2 months of birth, estimated children who have lost one or both parents due to AIDS)
3. Statistics on adolescents to adults (ie. percent of young people who know a place to get tested for HIV, percent of people (aged 15-49) expressing discriminatory attitudes towards people living with HIV)

What might draw some attention is the pregnant women and children group. The reason being that children born with HIV have a significantly higher risk of facing potential health and social challenges as they grow. HIV transmission from mother to child is also one of the most common modes of transmission as the virus is transmitted through bodily fluids, including breast milk. In our app, we will be mapping out these 17 indicators across numerous countries between 1970 and 2022. 

### Research Questions
Dan is an epidemiologist that works for WHO and who wants to better understand the distribution of HIV statistics in South Africa compared to Western Europe. He knows that there is a massive discrepancy in care offered in the Western regions of the world compared the Southern regions and he wants to start an initiative to allocate more resources and support for undercared regions. He wants to explore the most up-to-date data set that includes various statistics on a wide range of individuals, from infants to adults, in each sector of the globe. Dan can utilize our dashboard app and select for countries with high quality HIV care and treatment, such as Germany, France, and the UK. He can also select for South Africa, Lesotho, and Eswatini, for example, to compare to. Say Dan is particularly interested in young people living with or at risk for HIV/AIDS, so we can choose statistics such as "Per cent of young people (aged 15-24 years) with comprehensive, correct knowledge of HIV" and "Per cent of young people (aged 15-24 years) who have ever been tested for HIV and received the result of the last test". He can refer to these visualization to build his argument or proposal to fund more support for South African regions to his peers or supervisors. By also highlighting the western European countries, he can introduce the stark contrast of the availability of care discrepancy to further his case. 
